# Alergi
Making eating out safer and accessible for people with food allergies.

Alergi is an easy-to-use web application that allows users to input their restrictions in any language along with an image of a menu in order to receive a list of items from that menu that fit their dietary needs. Additionally, our ML model will measure the semantic similarity between words to suggest other items which may also be unsafe to consume. Just from their phones, users will be equipped with the confidence to go out and eat without worrying about their restrictions getting in the way.

We utilize a Food2vec machine learning model to identify the ingredients of dishes. Food2vec is based on a quintessential natural language processing technique: word2vec. The word2vec algorithm uses a neural network model to learn word associations from a large corpus of text. Once trained, such a model can detect synonymous words or suggest additional words for a partial sentence. Similarly, food2vec vectorizes food items & ingredients in a multi-dimensional space and we are able to use non-linear dimensionality reduction techniques & advanced clustering algorithms to identify ingredients for any and all dishes. This enables us to match user allergies to potential allergens in the food.

# Usage
Once the site is launched, the user can select from a dropdown menu of common allergy groups, or additionally input specific ingredients they would like to avoid. Upload an image of a menu, and submit for a detailed summary of direct and potential allergen matches. 


# Project Status and Future Updates
Currently, the output formatting is simply a comprehensive dataframe. Although we believe that this offers the most complete information for the user (which is the priority with such high risks involved in incomplete information involving severe food allergens), this is difficult to read off directly. In the future, we will create additional UI improvements that will present the necessary information in a more legible and aesthetically pleasing form. Additionally, we hope to create a database of menus grouped by restaurant so using Alergi becomes easier as more and more individuals use it. By collecting user images, others will simply have to search for a restaurant to access menus. One final point we're hoping to develop on further is making the app more accessible to individuals with disbilities. We believe that all individuals should have access to Alergi as dietary restrictions affect many individuals, so we're looking to adjust features of our UI to make it more accessible. These changes may niclude changing the color of the UI, ensure that all outputs are easy to read for those using screen readings, and finally complying with more advanced ADA guidelines.


# Current Outline of Code
Our files contain different aspects of our project, along with some visualizations. Our data was pulled from Kaggle, however, the Food2vec model was trained on recipes from allrecipes.com. Additionally, we've included 2 interactive visualizations to illustrate the clustering power of our model along with how we identify which potential allergens can be reccomended. Our app_colab notebook contains a majority of our backend code for Alergi, mainly where we use Google's Tesseract API along with their Translation API in order to read in and clean our data. Our app.py files contain the code for our UI, something we will continue to develop as we recieve user feedback. 
